---
title: "Cooperative and Asynchronous Transformer-based Mission Planning for Heterogeneous Teams of Mobile Robots"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-10-01-CATMiP
excerpt: 'CATMiP leverages multi-agent reinforcement learning and the Multi-Agent Transformer architecture to coordinate heterogeneous mobile robots in asynchronous, communication-constrained environments.'
date: 2024-10-01
venue: 'IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (not published yet)'
slidesurl: # 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides2.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06372'
citation: 'https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.06372'
---

Coordinating heterogeneous teams of mobile robots for tasks such as search and rescue is highly challenging. This is due to the complexities of perception, decision making and planning in such environments, with agents' non-synchronous operation, constrained communication, and limited computational resources. This paper presents the Cooperative and Asynchronous Transformer-based Mission Planning (CATMiP) framework. CATMiP leverages multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) to effectively coordinate agents with heterogeneous sensing, motion, and actuation capabilities. The framework introduces a Class-based Macro-Action Decentralized Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (CMD-POMDP) to handle asynchronous decision-making among different agent classes via macro-actions. It also extends the Multi-Agent Transformer (MAT) architecture to facilitate distributed, ad-hoc communication among the agents. CATMiP easily adapts to mission complexities and communication constraints and scales to the environment and team sizes. Simulations demonstrate the framework's effectiveness in achieving cooperative mission objectives with two classes of explorer and rescuer agents, even in presence of communication and agent loss. 

The preprint is now available on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.06372).